Abstract

This paper discusses the various methods that are employed in predicting the trends in time series data. Here, an attempt to forecasting mobile phone sales has been made. Initially, we learnt how Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN) and Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) have been used to predict the demand for electricity in a residential locality. We then saw how the application of Deep Neural Networks in building predictive models came up with some very accurate predictions. Moving on, we also looked at how Support Vector Machines have been employed in forecasting the sales of mobile phones.
    
I. Introduction 

A market place is a intermediary link between a merchant(s) and a consumer(s). It takes away the hassle of visiting different websites or visiting different malls in order to compare the pricing of a product that a consumer is interested in. So a market place, be it online or offline acts as a portal for all merchants to exhibit and sell their products to interested customers.
 Customers would find it really easy to make a sound decision on their purchases given the plethora of options in terms of pricing and features. The merchants too could analyse and find out the products that seem to be really trendy and accordingly plan their sales strategy and the investments that they would have to make in order to have a successful campaign at the marketplace.  
Our goal was , given the dataset of phone sales in the first half of 2020, try and analyse how certain sales decisions such as pricing were indeed getting the optimal results in terms of sales, try predicting sales of a product and try to bring out the most influential factors that affect the sales.
The data was considerably clean when we ingested it, therefore not much of cleaning was required. 
One of the issues was, that many of the columns in the dataset took unstructured values and we had to figure out a way to extract information from them or make the decision to drop the columns entirely.
Explorative analysis showed that many attributes had a skewed distrubution.Few of the attributes were considerably correlated with one another. For one, the daily_gmv attribute of the dataset was higly correlated with the daily_sold attribute.



II. Literary Review


        
